build: update release notes (#16646)
docker/docs: build/release-notes.md

This page contains information about the new features, improvements, and bug
fixes in [Docker Buildx](https://github.com/docker/buildx){:target="blank" rel="noopener" class=""}.

## 0.10.2

{% include release-date.html date="2023-01-30" %}

> **Note**
>

> > Buildx v0.10 enables support for a minimal [SLSA Provenance](https://slsa.dev/provenance/)
> > attestation, which requires support for [OCI-compliant](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec)
> > multi-platform images. This may introduce issues with registry and runtime support
> > (e.g. [Google Cloud Run and AWS Lambda](https://github.com/docker/buildx/issues/1533)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Buildx v0.10 enables support for a minimal [SLSA Provenance](https://slsa.dev/provenance/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" }
> attestation, which requires support for [OCI-compliant](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" }
> multi-platform images. This may introduce issues with registries and runtimes that
> aren't OCI compliant, such as [Google Cloud Run and AWS Lambda](https://github.com/docker/buildx/issues/1533){: target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_" }).
```

Reviewer: Make this an include and reuse it

* Improve attestation access in `imagetools inspect` by lazily loading data. {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1546" %}
* Correctly mark capabilities request as internal. {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1538" %}
* Detect invalid attestation configuration. {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1545" %}
* Update containerd patches to fix possible push regression affecting
  `imagetools` commands. {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1559" %}

## 0.10.0

{% include release-date.html date="2023-01-10" %}

> **Note**
>
> Buildx v0.10 enables support for a minimal [SLSA Provenance](https://slsa.dev/provenance/)
> attestation, which requires support for [OCI-compliant](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec)
> multi-platform images. This may introduce issues with registry and runtime support
> (e.g. [Google Cloud Run and AWS Lambda](https://github.com/docker/buildx/issues/1533)).
> You can optionally disable the default provenance attestation functionality
> using `--provenance=false`.

### New

> * Build command supports new flags `--attest` and shorthands `--sbom` and
>   `--provenance` for adding attestations for your current build.
>   `--attest type=sbom` or `--sbom=true` will generate SBOM (Software Bill of
>   Materials) attestation for your build result in SPDX format.
>   `--attest type=provenance` or `--provenance=true` will generate [SLSA provenance attestation](attestations/slsa-provenance.md)
>   for your build result with information about how the build was performed.
>   When creating OCI images, a minimal provenance attestation is included with
>   the image by default. This feature requires BuildKit v0.11.0+. Read more
>   about advanced [SBOM options in our dedicated docs](attestations/sbom.md). {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1412" %}
>   {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1475" %}

Reviewer: I have no idea if I managed to format this correctly in the GitHub review GUI, but I tried breaking this into some sub-bullets for easier reading.

```suggestion
* The `buildx build` command supports a new `--attest` flag, along with shorthands `--sbom` and
  `--provenance`, for adding attestations for your current build. {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1412" %}
  {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1475" %}
  * `--attest type=sbom` or `--sbom=true` adds [SBOM attestations](attestations/sbom.md).
  * `--attest type=provenance` or `--provenance=true` adds [SLSA provenance attestations](attestations/slsa-provenance.md).
  * When creating OCI images, a minimal provenance attestation is included with
  the image by default.
```

* When building with BuildKit that supports provenance attestations Buildx will
  automatically share the version control information of your build context, so
  it can be shown in provenance for later debugging. Previously this only
  happened when building from a Git URL directly. To opt-out of this behavior
  you can set `BUILDX_GIT_INFO=0`. Optionally you can also automatically define
  labels with VCS info by setting `BUILDX_GIT_LABELS=1`. {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1462" %}
  {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1297" %} {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1341" %}
  {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1468" %} {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1477" %}
* Named contexts with `--build-context` now support `oci-layout://` protocol
  for initializing the context with a value of a local OCI layout directory.
  E.g. `--build-context stagename=oci-layout://path/to/dir`. This feature
  requires BuildKit v0.11.0+ and Dockerfile 1.5.0+. {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1456" %}

> * Bake now supports [resource interpolation](bake/configuring-build.md#resource-interpolation)

Reviewer: I am unsure if we should refer to Bake as "Bake" or as the command `buildx bake` - it almost seems bigger than a command. But other things like `imagetools` we do refer to as commands.

Author: I'm not sure, here it's about the Bake definition, not really the bake command.

  where you can reuse the values from other target definitions. {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1434" %}

> * Buildx will now automatically forward `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` build-arg if one is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Buildx will now automatically forward `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` environment variable if it is
```

  defined in your environment. This feature is meant to be used with updated

>   reproducible builds support in BuildKit v0.11.0+. {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1482" %}

Reviewer: worth linking to doc? https://github.com/moby/buildkit/blob/master/docs/build-repro.md

> * Buildx will now remember the last activity for a builder for better

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Buildx now remembers the last activity for a builder for better
```

  organization of builder instances. {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1439" %}
* Bake now supports [null values](bake/file-definition.md#null-values) for
  build arguments and labels to use the defaults set in the Dockerfile {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1449" %}

> * [`imagetools inspect` command](../engine/reference/commandline/buildx_imagetools_inspect.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [`buildx imagetools inspect` command](../engine/reference/commandline/buildx_imagetools_inspect.md)
```

  now supports showing SBOM and Provenance data {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1444" %}
  {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1498" %}
* Increase performance of `ls` command and inspect flows {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1430" %}
  {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1454" %} {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1455" %} 
  {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1345" %}
* Adding extra hosts with [Docker driver](drivers/docker.md) now supports

>   Docker specific "host-gateway" special value {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1446" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Docker-specific `host-gateway` special value {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1446" %}
```

* [OCI exporter](exporters/oci-docker.md) now supports `tar=false` option for
  exporting OCI format directly in a directory {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1420" %}

> ### Updates
> 
> * Updated the Compose Specification to 1.6.0 {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1387" %}

Reviewer: How about upgrades instead of updates? Did this for Engine v23

```suggestion
### Upgrades

* Upgrade the Compose Specification to 1.6.0 {% include github_issue.md repo="docker/buildx" number="1387" %}
```

Author: Not against it I was just following the current layout as we are using `### Updates` since https://github.com/docker/docs/pull/16208
